# Derelict 2.0.0

**This is a beta release! Please backup your world before trying out the mod and report any issues you find!**  
Have fun :)

## New biome - the Spider Caves

- Spawn commonly in the overworld
- Contains many spider-made structures, hanging cobwebs, spider molts, eggs and a new stone type - Arachnite
- Rarely spawns the Spider Mother's Lair structure - a boss arena
- A little spider structure also spawns above the ground. It contains a map to the Spider Mother's Lair

## Mobs

Some of the spiders (Arachne, Net Caster and Daddy Long Legs) use a custom-made leg system that makes them even
creepier!

### Jumping Spiders

- Spawn everywhere normal spiders do, but twice as rarely
- Leap at the player

### Spiny Spiders

- Spawn in Spider Caves and Crimson Forest
- Explode when the players get close, covering them in a web

### Charming Spiders

- Spawn in Spider Caves and Warped Forests
- Cute fellas, may dance if you provide some music
- Not yet fully implemented behavior-wise

### Web Caster

- Exclusive to the Spider Caves
- Has more HP, is aggressive, and tries to catch you in its web
- Sometimes drops a Spider Silk Gland

### Daddy Long Legs

- Creative-only for now

## Arachne Boss

- The Huge Spider Mother

### Spawning

- Her Egg spawns in the Spider Mother's Lair inside the Spider Caves
- Punch the Arachne Egg three times to release her
    - You can configure an advancement necessary to break the egg. If set, it'll warn the player that they're too weak
      if they haven't completed the given advancement.
    - The Egg regenerates an hour after defeating the boss. This can also be tweaked or turned off in the config.

### Attacks

- Jumps towards her target, exploding on impact
- Repeatedly punches her front legs into the ground, producing short-ranged, but powerful shockwaves
- Shoots a sticky web
- Has a chance to grab her victim in her fangs, poisoning them if they don't free themselves quickly enough
- Spawns a bunch of spiders from the eggs on her back
- After certain HP thresholds, Arachne becomes bigger. She summons a small army of spiders, and her attacks get slightly
  quicker and more powerful

### Drops

- A large amount of regular spider drops, some Spider Silk Glands and Spider Pheromone Glands

## Blocks

- Arachnite stone set
- Spider Silk. See-through but solid block that functions similar to cobwebs
- Wall Cobwebs, climbable Spider Silk strands
- Decorative Spider Molts

### Spider Eggs

- decorative Spider Egg Blocks, Spider Eggs and Spider Egg Clusters
- functional Spider Eggs. Turn into a given spider monster when a player gets close

## Items and Gear

- Crafting Ingredients: Spider Molt, Spider Pheromone Gland, Spider Silk Gland

### Netwalkers

- A pair of leggings that lets you walk on webs and through webs!

### Arachnicannon

- A spider carcass turned into a weapon. Right-click on Spider Eggs in the world to load them into the weapon, then
  charge the attack to release a swarm of tiny, short-lived spider-helpers

### Spider Silk Bola

- Throw on a mob to cover them in sticky cobweb, preventing them from moving

## Webbed effect

- When applied, the mob is covered in a sticky cobweb. This level goes down from level 3 -> 1 each time it "ends", and
  only disappears after level 1
- When any level is applied, it prevents the mob from moving (except by jumping)
- Cannot be removed with milk

